[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> There have been whispers
since the early 1960s that
the US government and military
have been involved with
discovering caverns hidden under
the desert of the southwest.
They've also been active in
creating underground cities
and bases.
One of the more
dramatic scenarios
involves an underground base
near the town of Dulce, New
Mexico.
The first base came
into prominence
when UFO researcher Paul
Bennewitz accidentally
discovered it.
But who was Paul Bennewitz?
>> So Paul Bennewitz was a
US private scientist who had
a small defense
company of his own.
And he did contract work for
the US military in the 1970s.
Paul Bennewitz
lived right across
from Kirtland Air Force
Base in New Mexico.
And in the mid to late
1970s, started to detect--
he had very sophisticated
instrumentation at his home--
detect what he believed were
UFOs over Kirtland and Manzano
as well, the weapons
storage area nearby there.
Detect different types
of communications
signals that he believed
he had translated.
In fact, I have
translations of those.
And so he became
convinced that there
was serious UFO and basically
extraterrestrial activity
over Kirtland and Manzano, the
weapons storage facility where
there was a ton of nukes.
>> And Bennewitz had
an interest in UFOs.
And this was expanded
upon by the fact
that he started to see in
the skies over Kirtland
these strange objects performing
all sorts of weird maneuvers.
At the same time, the equipment
at the Thunder company
was picking up these
unusual, unexplained noises,
which seemed to be some
sort of coded message.
And Bennewitz came
to believe that what
he was seeing in the sky
were definitive UFOs,
extraterrestrial spacecraft,
and that these coded messages he
was picking up were
covert messages
from extraterrestrial craft to
other extraterrestrial craft.
And he began to dig into
this issue very, very deeply.
>> Paul Bennewitz lived in
Albuquerque next to Kirtland
Air Force Base, which was and
is a center of a lot of secret
weapons and weapons systems
and aircraft research.
And so he was
uniquely positioned
to see what was
going on, on the base
because he lived on a hill.
His house is still there,
overlooking the entire base.
And he could see things,
especially late at night
when they were doing testing.
And they didn't figure
anybody was up at that hour,
but Paul Bennewitz was.
He had a degree, I
think a master's,
in electrical engineering.
>> And so he began intercepting
radio communications closely
involving Manzano nuclear
facility there in New Mexico.
And so he was able to get
some of this information
about UFOs, monitoring this
facility, spying on that.
And he was getting some really
interesting communications
that he felt were
extraterrestrial in origin.
And he learned a lot of things
about the extraterrestrials
or whoever it was in the UFOs
that were [INAUDIBLE] in them,
communicating amongst
themselves and communicating
with actors on the ground.
>> So he foolishly and naively
alerted the US government
to this fact.
In fact, he wrote letters
to President Ronald Reagan
after 1981.
Several, I think.
Alerted the people of Kirtland.
>> Well, he started seeing
and then filming with a 8
millimeter camera, I believe,
these objects lighting up,
raising up in the air, going off
behind a mountain and dropping
down behind the mountain.
And he said he thought that
these were some sort of UFOs
with aliens piloting them.
And he wanted the Air
Force to know this,
as if somehow they wouldn't
know that this was going on,
on their own base.
He also said he saw
people walking around them
with flashlights
before they took off,
which is another weird thing.
>> He essentially opened his
entire box up to them and said,
I've been seeing these objects.
I've been filming them.
There are these coded
transmissions coming from them.
And I've recorded them, and
I'm starting to decipher them.
So for people working
at the base who
were enlisted to take part in
these controversial classified
programs, Bennewitz
was immediately
perceived as a potential
threat to national security.
Because he was
digging into something
that was highly controversial,
but also deeply secret as well.
So he really tipped the
scales against himself.
And that's when the
people at the base
began saying to him, well,
what is it that you found?
Maybe we can help
you a little bit.
But this was rarely done
to try and convince him
to open up and tell
them everything he knew.
That would then
allow them to see
how much damage had been
done and how much damage
control they then had
to put into place.
So looking back at
it, we could say
it was almost his own
worst enemy by revealing
what it was that he'd found.
>> So this was something him
being a loyal American citizen,
he went to the Air Force Office
of Special Investigations.
And he began working with
one of their intelligence
officials, Richard Doty.
And Doty was basically
having Bennewitz debriefed.
And then actually, they came up
with some funding for Bennewitz
to continue to do this
research because they
were interested in
finding out what
it was Bennewitz had learned.
>> Bennewitz was fully aware
that he was being watched.
But he took it as almost
like a double-edged sword
that he knew that
he was being watched
and he wasn't too
happy about that.
But on the other
hand, he realized
that if he was
being watched, then
clearly, he was
on the right path.
So he tried to
juggle things where
he knew some of these people
were somewhat hostile to him,
but others were actually
trying to help him
by giving information.
So it was a case of
having to work with one
and having to put
up with the other.
>> So Air Force Office of
Special Investigations was
trying to work out
what's going on.
But eventually, they
were ordered to basically
take Bennewitz out.
And the way they did it
was to work with the grays,
because they did
have agreements with
the gray extraterrestrials.
And gray extraterrestrials
began messing with Bennewitz.
And basically, he had
a nervous breakdown.
And that's when his
involvement in this whole field
came to an end.
>> Paul Bennewitz was led to
believe that there was a secret
underground base located
near Dulce, New Mexico.
He began flying there in his
plane to check out the area.
>> Eventually, what happened
was they began to mess with him.
And some extraterrestrials, a
group of gray extraterrestrials
that were working with the
military in the Dulce base.
Bennewitz's radio
equipment had been
able to intercept
the communications
between the extraterrestrials
and the human operators
in the base, in the
underground base.
So Dulce becomes a point
of focus for Bennewitz.
And he trains his
equipment there.
And he has some high speed
photographic equipment
there as well.
And he's actually
able to photograph
some of the ships,
some of the UFOs
going into the mesa,
where you actually
have a kind of vibrational
shift in some of the craft.
>> And the more he dug into
it, he found himself exposed
to even more
nightmarish stories,
many of them coming from Dulce.
For example, a lot
of these insiders,
whistleblowers if you
like, claimed to him
that all sorts of
unspeakable experiments
were being undertaken
in the Dulce base.
People were being
used as guinea pigs,
if you like, in bizarre
genetic experiments,
splicing alien and
human DNA together
and creating strange half
human, half alien creatures.
And reportedly, there
were hundreds and hundreds
of people kept in the
Dulce base in cages,
the people who go missing
every year, that kind of thing.
>> So Bennewitz did strongly
believe that there was
an underground base
at Dulce, New Mexico.
I don't think he was
necessarily far off, to be
perfectly honest with you.
I don't necessarily discredit
what Bennewitz thinks.
I think it's entirely possible
that there was and may even
still be some underground
activity near Dulce.
First of all, just
generally speaking,
it is documented and known that
no later than the 1960s did
the United States Navy have
detailed plans to build
deep underground facilities,
deep underground military bases
down in various parts of the
United States and globally.
And not just under the ground,
but under the ocean floor.
We have illustrations,
drawings of this at the time
by illustrators who were
hired by the Navy to do this.
Now whether they did it or
not is another question.
But certainly, they were
thinking about this.
And by the way, the expense,
the money, the technology,
all of that was totally doable
in the context of 1960s.
So it could be done.
All you need to do for
an underground ocean base
is extract oxygen
out of the water.
And we know how to do that.
We've done that since the '50s.
Have a source of
energy down there,
and you can play ping pong and
under nice fluorescent lighting
for days and weeks and
months, no problem.
Underground bases
are not difficult.
Underground bases under
the mountains, ditto.
>> In northern New Mexico,
animals are being found drained
of blood with organs removed.
Black helicopters were seen
flying around the area,
strange lights, UFOs.
And it all revolved
around this huge mesa,
which overlooks Dulce,
called the Archuleta mesa.
One of the intriguing
theories is
that there exists within
and below this huge mesa
some sort of fortified
alien installation,
an extraterrestrial
base if you like.
And certainly since
the 1970s, right
through to the present
day, a lot of research
has been done into
the Dulce area
to try and answer that question.
Are extraterrestrials
living under New Mexico
in the Dulce area?
>> Back in the
1950s in Farmington,
there was an armada of UFOs seen
going from Farmington eastward
towards Dulce.
Terrified everybody.
Made the newspapers,
and then nothing.
>> In today's world, a lot of
nations do have underground
installations.
It makes a great deal of
sense because if God forbid
there was ever a
nuclear war, then
if some sort of containment
of our governments
is going to take place
and continuation,
then the best place to be in a
third world war is underground.
It makes sense.
So a lot of these
installations were
built during the
height of the Cold War
to protect the governments
while, unfortunately, the rest
of us are left upstairs to fry.
And one of the theories is that
some of these installations
may have been built for
potential in the events
of a third world war.
But over time, they may
have been reorganized
and transformed
to where you have
these alien-human
interactions going on.
In other words, very
much like Dulce.
>> We had people coming forward,
finally sharing UFO sightings,
engagements with cryptids,
creatures they could not
explain.
For the first time on
record, multiple families
independent of one another
said they hear traffic
beneath their town, traffic,
traffic like cars and trucks.
They hear what sounds
like a train system.
And we all know about
the maglev tunnel
system that supposedly exists.
There, there is one that
exists within the Los Alamos
infrastructure.
There's an underground
maglev system.
>> What's interesting about
Dulce itself is that back
in 1967, there was a program
called Operation Gasbuggy.
And ostensibly, it was
to detonate atomic bombs
underground in the Dulce area
to try and extract natural gas.
Now some researchers believe
that that was a cover story.
And the nuclear
blasting was actually
done to expand the
Dulce base or even
to try and wipe out the hostile
aliens that were down there.
In other words, we
have this situation
where, according
to Phil Schneider,
the Dulce base was
almost like a nightmarish
Frankenstein's type lab.
>> The small town of Dulce
always experienced a lot
of high strangeness.
However, in the mid
1990s, a man came forth
with a stunning story
about his experiences
in an underground base built
under the Archuleta mesa,
just north of Dulce.
His name was Phil Schneider.
>> Phil Schneider, he started
going public in the mid 1990s.
And he started attending
some UFO conferences
and started to reveal his
background as a civil engineer.
He showed his documentation that
he was the son of an Operation
Paperclip scientist and
that he was recruited
into these covert programs.
That tends to be a kind
of generational thing.
So he just followed
his father's footsteps,
building these
underground bases that
would be joint facilities
for extraterrestrials
and elite human units.
So he's building these
bases all over the place.
He's part of the team
that kind of like
is looking at
different areas that
would be suitable for the
construction of a base.
And he described a number of
incidents, one of the incidents
that happened in 1979,
the famous Dulce battle,
where he says that
they sunk a shaft.
They were basically doing
some mining exploration there
to see where they could build
a facility in that arena.
And they basically
came into an area
that was a very old
cavern system, where
gray extraterrestrials
had a base.
And the story was
that what happened
was that there were elite
military units that went down
there, Delta forces and
other special forces.
SEALs and so forth
went down there.
And they basically
encountered these tall, gray
extraterrestrials.
And so there was a
firefight down there.
And approximately, 60 military
personnel and scientists
were killed.
And Schneider gets
wounded, but he's alive,
and he gets extracted
out of there.
So that's the
famous Dulce battle,
which was basically where the
US military went into an area
where they weren't
supposed to be.
>> His version of events is that
there was an altercation there.
He was involved in
the altercation.
He was hit with some sort of a
plasma weapon, which seared off
a portion of his hand.
And that he had managed
to escape with samples,
synthetic samples that were
synthesized by the grays that
essentially led
to the development
of our stealth technology.
He was displaying these
at conferences as part
of these preparedness expos.
He had this whole connection
to the aliens, essentially.
And for him, the catalyst
was his time at Dulce.
And it was this 1979
engagement with the grays.
And that's pretty much
the crux of his story.
And as you know, he went
on the lecture circuit
and died as a result.
>> Phil Schneider was an
interesting character who is
now deceased.
His father was a man
named Oscar Schneider,
who had a lot of responsibility
during the Second World War.
He was involved in
early atomic bomb tests,
worked on nuclear submarines.
And according to Phil
Schneider, his father
also worked on the infamous
Philadelphia experiments
in 1943, which was allegedly a
program to try and make a war
ship invisible to the enemy.
But as far as Phil
Schneider is concerned,
he came forward,
many years ago now,
talking about how he
said he was an engineer
and was working on
a lot of programs
to construct massive
underground installations
all across the United States.
And so Schneider
began in the mid 1990s
talking about the Dulce battle,
talking about his involvement
in building these
underground bases.
He said that there were
just over 100 of them, all
over the United
States, that there
are some in other places
of the world like Pine
Gap in Australia.
He's disclosed the size of the
budget, of the black budget.
And his estimate
was pretty accurate.
He said back in
that day, he said
it was around a
trillion dollars.
So he's talking about
the early 1990s.
And it was funding
all these bases.
And he broke ranks
when he realized
that what was being created
was a new world government,
that he saw a facility that
was being created that would
host the United Nations.
And he said that what
greatly disturbed
him was that where the United
Nations diplomats would
be meeting and conducting
their business for the planet,
that above them was a
kind of alcove where
the gray extraterrestrials
would be observing.
And he realized that the new
world order was basically
going to be controlled by these
gray extraterrestrials, who
were working with the German
groups out of Antartica.
And so this was something
that he decided that he
couldn't go along with this.
He would reveal the truth.
And that's what he was doing,
right up until early 1996.
He turns up dead in his
apartment, strangled.
An autopsy isn't
really conducted.
And people start
disclosing that this
is exactly what he had
been warning against,
that he would be
assassinated for revealing
all this information.
And it was made to
look like a suicide.
But the people who knew him and
know about the circumstances,
the lack of a rigorous
autopsy, that Schneider
had been murdered for
revealing too much.
>> The fact of the matter
is, is that he was killed
because of what he was doing.
And it's very clear to
researchers who looked into it.
There is an effort
underway right now
to suppress that information.
There are books
that are coming out
that are filled with alternative
realities of what actually
occurred.
And all of them are part of this
narrative that he was a liar.
There's nothing in Dulce.
Everybody just please go
away and forget about all
of this nonsense of gray aliens.
>> One of the primary things
that Phil Schneider talked
about at Dulce was this
particular issue of human
beings used against their will
in strange and controversial
genetic experimentation.
The other angle that Phil
Schneider was also well known
for was pointing out that we,
the human race, the military,
the government had lost
control of the Dulce base.
Yes, we weren't there.
But most of the people
who were in there
were very fearful
of their lives.
And Schneider believed
that, essentially, the base
had become not so much
a no go area for us,
but a highly dangerous
place where the aliens were
calling the shots.
What it boils down to is that
the Dulce base was, is totally
under alien control, where you
had the base itself constructed
possibly by the military
and people like Schneider
and the people he
was working with.
But then when the alien
component comes along,
things kind of change.
They start to take control.
The military retreats.
But according to
Schneider, a lot
of the experiments
that were going on
under Dulce in this
particular base
were sort of horrendous,
people in jails, if you like,
in chains, held
prisoner and used
by these extraterrestrial
entities how and whenever they
wanted to.
This involved bizarre genetic
experiments, gene splicing,
cross breeding
humans and aliens,
and for want of a better
term, everything being done
for the benefit of the
aliens and none of it being
done for the benefit of us.
There's no doubt that when
it comes to the Dulce story,
that had it not been
for Phil Schneider,
Dulce certainly would not
be talked about in the way
that it is today.
>> Phil Schneider was one
of the first people to blow
the whistle on the secret
base under Ducle, New Mexico.
But has anyone else talked?
Has anyone else become
a whistleblower?
>> Gabe Valdez was a New
Mexico state police officer.
And he had, I would say,
a very involved connection
with the people of the Dulce
Jicarilla Apache reservation.
And he was friends
with lots of them.
And the Jicarilla have
their own police department.
And I know some of the
veteran police officers
from the Jicarilla
Apache reservation.
And Gabe was
instrumental in helping
to establish that the
cattle mutilations,
the UFO sightings, everything
that was occuring there
in Dulce led to
something even stranger.
He produced photographs
of a hybrid.
This is a calf
with a human head.
And that made its way into the
public by way of Bill Burns,
his television show.
And then after it
aired on "UFO Hunters,"
Congress immediately
enacted this law
that stated no human
animal hybridization.
And then the show was canceled.
I had a source, an
insider introduced me
to this retired United
States Air Force Colonel.
That's how I got involved
with the whole Dulce story.
And he had to get
this off his chest.
This is something that before
he went into permanent hiding,
he had to share with somebody.
So I got the break
of the century.
And he says he was part of this
classified medical detachment
at the McClellan Air Force Base.
And what they did was is
they studied these events
that were top secret
military projects
that whenever
something went wrong,
it was his team's job to
immediately go wherever
this was happening, provide
assessments, and make
determinations.
So he says in '79, he
got a call to report to--
and not with his team, with an
impromptu put together squad.
And they were all
supposed to meet up
at Edwards Air Force Base.
Once there, they would get
briefing documentations
that they were supposed to read
briefing documents on their way
to this undisclosed facility
in Dulce, New Mexico.
When he was reading
the briefing documents,
he thought he was reading
about Native Americans who
lived in the caverns
at this facility.
And it didn't make
sense to him why
Native would be living inside
of an underground complex,
a complex series of
caverns and whatnot.
It wasn't until they
were about to reach
New Mexico that he realized,
oh, these aren't humans.
I am bringing about
something non-human.
And he was chosen specifically
with these other individuals
because whoever it
was that assembled
the team knew that
this team would not
crack under the pressure.
When they got to Dulce, they
knew that they would just
conduct business as usual.
And they did.
For him, it turned into
something fruitful.
He ended up working there
for the next several years.
And through working
there, he learned so much
about this exponential
advancements
in our levels of technology.
It all comes from Dulce.
Everything comes from Dulce.
There's a group in Los Alamos
called the Technological
Commercialization Office that
takes technologies and puts
them out into the
private sector.
And we made a big discovery.
We discovered a company
called Hyperion.
It was led by Lady
Barbara Judge who
was knighted by the
Queen of England,
giving her commander of the
British empire, this very
prestigious knighting,
for two reasons--
her work in the nuclear sector
and the international banking
sector.
Now here's where
it gets strange.
Hyperion, nobody
knew about them.
My source said you need to
look into this company in Los
Alamos.
Why?
Because there's your proof
of reverse engineered
alien technology or
emerging alien technology,
because most people don't
realize there's two types.
We go to crash retrievals,
and we find downed ET craft
and reverse engineer it.
You go to Dulce, where these
gray beings, these GGs,
these creations of
the Anunnaki have
been living for 25,000 years.
And they provide us, they
gift to us in exchange
with technology for resources.
Now back to Hyperion--
strange company.
I looked up their information.
And I was able to find
their documentation.
And they only sold one thing--
micro nuclear reactors.
And they only sold
it to a select few--
offshore drilling and mining
operations and foreign
militaries.
Now here's where
it gets strange.
The colonel told me that the
Dulce facility is actually
powered by micro
nuclear reactors.
And he went into specific
detail as to how they are.
It was, like, a year and a half
later when Hyperion information
finally emerged.
And they have four
office locations.
They're in Los Alamos.
They are in Langley, Virginia.
They're adjacent to Denver
International Airport
and London, the financial
capital of the world.
Denver being because they--
of course, if this is the
business that they're in,
they need to be by
the largest continuity
of government facility,
which is beneath the airport.
Signs are everywhere.
Television shows are being
kicked out of the airport.
Everyone knows what's
happening there.
So we dug deep.
We outed them.
They changed the name
of their company.
They removed all documentation
with regards to the product
that they sell-- one thing--
mico nuclear reactors.
And they're now called
Fortune Technologies.
And you pretty much
don't know what they do,
but they're still
a public company.
>> The stories surrounding
the area around Dulce,
New Mexico are growing and
getting stranger by the day.
Strange creatures,
aliens, UFOs, and more
have been seen by eyewitnesses.
>> But Dulce is much more than
gray aliens and the engagement
with these gray
aliens by the people.
It has a deep, rich history,
which traces all the way back
to the Anunnaki, who
placed them there
25,000 years ago to die off.
They infected them with
some sort of a virus.
They were not meant to survive.
John Lear calls them
cybernetic organisms.
And he is partly right.
Because in order to sustain
their continued evolution
to maintain being alive,
they have had to adapt.
They have had to adapt by
becoming a hybrid of technology
and their biological
makeup to continue on.
And that's why I think--
that's another reason why you're
seeing a lot of advancements
in robotics with
Boston Dynamics,
artificial intelligence.
>> The local Native
American tribes who live
at the Jicarilla reservation
near Dulce have known about
the presence of these alien
groups for a long time.
>> They've had so
many interactions,
but it is not within their
culture to talk about this
openly.
They don't try to
conceal anything.
But in order for you to
get information from them,
you have to ask them.
And nobody talks to them.
So this chief of police that
we interviewed with the Aspen
Organization and Mufon
both being present,
he gave us in detail description
of what he could only
describe as escaped
projects, experiments
from unknown projects
at the Dulce facility.
Over a span of 20 years,
he had encountered some,
on average, one a year,
some hybrid or cryptid type
being between Dulce and Taos.
I mean, the wilderness
is huge up there.
And some were reports
that, as a police officer,
he was told to go investigate.
Others, just happenstance.
It just-- out of nowhere.
Winged creatures,
hybrid human grays
lost in the woods, people
talking with Bigfoot type
creatures, having
intelligent conversations.
Strange things, and he
believes in his heart
that this all came
about from Dulce,
what they're conducting there.
We know that one of the major
mandates of the Dulce facility
was the super
soldier experiments,
hybrid experiments,
hybridization experiments.
So it's not surprising
to me that him
being an official who's
seeking public office
or going to seek
public office, he
needed to get this
off of his chest,
this monkey off of his back.
However, he still couldn't
come out public with it.
But he wanted the
public to know.
This is crazy.
This is not what
you would expect
from a current chief of
police of a major community
in the area.
>> The most common thing that's
reported that's unusual there
are small two-foot
hairy dwarves.
They're seen constantly,
even in town on Main Street.
I've been chasing this footage
that somebody has there.
And I'm trying to track it down.
The old casino site had a
surveillance camera set up,
inside and out.
And one night, these
dwarves started
jumping from car to car,
putting dents in people's hoods
in the parking lot.
And they caught them on camera.
Now according to Hoyt Velarde,
who was, for many years, 30,
35 years, was the head of the
Department of Public Safety
there, the chief law
enforcement officer,
he confirmed this story to me.
I had another current officer
also confirm the story.
The Big Foot there, there is
extra large Big Foot there,
the largest outside of
the Pacific Northwest,
the largest hairy hominids
that I've heard of.
They go 12 feet around Dulce.
Hoyt Velarde's had one
right on his property.
He got within 100 feet
of one in broad daylight.
And he was able to step over a
four strand barbed wire fence
without even slowing down.
>> There are a number of
theories for what's going
on at Dulce.
You have the idea that it could
be some sort of very, very
old alien base that
essentially was constructed
by extraterrestrials,
who knows how long ago.
Another intriguing and
also controversial theory
is the idea that elements of the
US military or the governments
are working in tandem
with extraterrestrials
within this space.
And an even more
controversial theory
suggests that these
extraterrestrials
may be quite dangerous to us.
And we actually got kicked out.
And for the most part, it's
perceived as sort of a no go
area for the government now.
Or it could be a combination of
all these different scenarios
and theories.
But what we do know
for sure is that there
has been an extraordinary
amount of UFO activity
sightings, abductions,
cattle mutilations
all throughout this
particular area.
>> Whatever is
happening at Dulce,
New Mexico will probably remain
a mystery for the near future.
The isolation and
lack of population
make the American
Southwest a perfect place
to hide something.
In our next episode
of "Deep Space,"
we travel to the past
to explore encounters
with otherworldly visitors.